.TH DRIFTER 1 "2026-05-21" "Void Drift" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
drifter \- minimal idle IRC client for the Void Drift game
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B drifter
.B \-nick
.I nick
.B \-game\-pass
.I password
[\fIOPTIONS\fR]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B drifter
is a companion program to
.BR voidrift (1).
It connects to an IRC server, joins the game channel, authenticates
with the game bot via \fB!login\fR, and then idles indefinitely \[em]
earning levels without any further interaction.
.PP
All channel messages are printed to standard output with ANSI colour
formatting derived from the IRC codes sent by the bot.
If a log file is specified with \fB\-log\fR, plain stripped text is
appended to it in addition to the coloured stdout output.
.PP
.B drifter
verifies the game bot is present in the channel before sending
\fB!login\fR, and confirms the login succeeded by watching for the
bot\[aq]s channel announcement and by sending \fB!whoami\fR shortly
after.
If the bot restarts and rejoins the channel,
.B drifter
automatically re-authenticates after a short random delay.
.PP
On receiving SIGINT or SIGTERM,
.B drifter
sends \fB!logout\fR to the bot before disconnecting, avoiding the quit
penalty.
On unclean disconnects (network drop) it reconnects automatically after
10 seconds.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.BI \-nick " nick"
IRC nick to use.
.B Required.
.TP
.BI \-game\-pass " password"
Game password sent to the bot via private message as \fB!login\fR.
.B Required.
.TP
.BI \-bot " nick"
Nick of the game bot to send \fB!login\fR and \fB!logout\fR to.
Default: \fBVoidKeeper\fR.
.TP
.BI \-channel " channel"
IRC channel to join.
Default: \fB#voidrift\fR.
.TP
.BI \-server " host:port"
IRC server to connect to.
Default: \fBirc.libera.chat:6667\fR.
.TP
.B \-ssl
Use SSL/TLS for the IRC connection.
Default: false.
.TP
.BI \-server\-pass " password"
IRC server password (PASS command).
Default: none.
.TP
.BI \-nickserv\-pass " password"
NickServ password; sends \fBIDENTIFY\fR on connect.
Default: none.
.TP
.BI \-log " file"
Append plain-text (IRC codes stripped) messages to this file.
Standard output always receives the ANSI-coloured version.
Default: none.
.TP
.B \-version
Print version and exit.
.SH SIGNALS
.TP
.B SIGINT, SIGTERM
Send \fB!logout\fR to the game bot, then exit cleanly.
This avoids the quit penalty that would otherwise be applied on
disconnect.
.SH DIAGNOSTICS
.B drifter
logs status messages to standard output with timestamps.
Notable messages:
.TP
.B "WARNING: bot <nick> not found in <channel>"
The game bot was not in the channel when \fB!login\fR was about to be
sent.
\fBdrifter\fR will retry automatically on the next JOIN event.
.TP
.B "WARNING: no !login reply from <bot> after 10s"
The bot did not acknowledge the login within 10 seconds.
.TP
.B "WARNING: login failed: <reply>"
The bot rejected the login (wrong password, nick not registered, etc.).
.TP
.B "WARNING: bot <nick> left/quit <channel>"
The game bot left the channel or disconnected.
\fBdrifter\fR will re-authenticate automatically when the bot returns.
.SH EXAMPLES
Basic usage:
.PP
.RS
.EX
drifter \-nick MyChar \-game\-pass s3cr3t
.EE
.RE
.PP
With a log file and NickServ authentication:
.PP
.RS
.EX
drifter \-nick MyChar \-game\-pass s3cr3t \\
        \-nickserv\-pass nspass \-log ~/voidrift\-MyChar.log
.EE
.RE
.PP
Against a local test server:
.PP
.RS
.EX
drifter \-nick MyChar \-game\-pass s3cr3t \-server localhost:6667
.EE
.RE
.SH SEE ALSO
.BR voidrift (1)
.SH AUTHOR
Costin Stroie <costinstroie@eridu.eu.org>
.PP
Source code: https://github.com/cstroie/voidrift
